Hello welcome back.
Of course I'm watching.
We've already discussed I suppose in quite a bit of detail and looked at a case study.
And today we're going to talk about blocking startups and white papers for blocking projects because
I think it's an important topic.
There's a lot of hype right now around crypto currencies and block chain.
And while there is a lot of merit to some projects at the same time there are a lot of projects that
will probably fail and it is important to understand what kind of safeguards self understand what's
a proper blockin project looks like.
And if the idea is worthwhile.
Now I wanted to put faces by saying that none of this is investment advice this is only educational
purposes.
We just look at someone examples and nothing more than that.
In fact we're not even interested in the investment side of things we're interested in how these projects
work and how blotching is.
So here we are on coin market catacomb and you can see all of the different coins and tokens that exist
right now and if you look there's like hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of them total markup right
now is like 322.
Wow.
Billion dollars of this of this market.
It's growing very fast.
And so we're going to look at it as tokens.
So even if you just look at the tokens these are the ones that you know they're meant to have.
And in fact coins as well but like specifically tokens those are the ones that have the Suppose predominantly
And those are the ones that are meant to actually have some idea behind them.
So one of the ones that we're going to look at is power Ledger just now.
But then there's lots and lots of different ones.
And so as we discussed before somebody has kind of like an idea on how to change the world and make
things better and they want to create this mini economy and they want to have their own Tolkin inside
it to power they can.
But all the time people just release these in order to kind of ride the wave of the hype that exists
hoping that people will just invest into their token just in order to later gain from the appreciating
value of that token whereas the idea itself and the usage of took it might not have any meaning.
So how do you tell how do you tell which ones are good and which ones are bad or not.
We don't forget we're not talking about even investing into them.
We're just trying to understand how do you tell how do you learn from these projects how can we find
the good projects.
Because like so many of them hungry identify the good ones from the bad ones and if we want to do our
own Blash and projects down bloated problems down the track How do we you know get some ideas learn
from others from their successes and mistakes.
But like really look at the valid ones rather than the ones who are just trying to ride the wave height.
Well the way to look at it is to explore the white paper.
So we're going to look at a couple of examples.
So for instance here's a project called s.a.
And again I don't know too much about this project.
I'm not affiliated with a project in any way but it looks like something like an interesting idea.
That's what it looks like to me.
And the idea is to to use block chain to create to this distributed file hosting system just to create
a secure distributed cloud hosting cloud storage platform storage platform and the way it works is probably
clouds up there were just like distributed storage platform because the way it works is like we all
have spare gigabytes or terabytes on our hard drives.
We always have like a little bit or a lot of extra space so why not use that why not rent out that space
on your computer to two other people who need that storage who are currently using things like Dropbox
or Google Drive.
Why not have something that is distributed.
You remember that like as we discussed the main concept of watch chain is one of the main concepts is
to change the world from the hardware 3.0 will work and we'll talk about this actually in an upcoming
trial.
But the main idea is how to is to go from centralized storage a centralized servers to decentralized
and so one of the things is storage.
And so that's what they're doing is you can see like there's lots of different places where people are
actually already part of the A block chain.
And so the data isn't actually stored on the block itself that the data is stored in computers it's
anonymised it's is is fragmented.
So like there's virus protection obviously that they've probably thought through and what else.
And there's like multiple copies and so on.
And but the block chain allows people to control their data and to protect that there's nobody else
can access it unless they have like the private key.
And also it allows them to then later to put their data together see if their data is stored multiple
hundred different views around the world.
The whole chain facilitates that process of putting it back to you.
So that's how I understand the project.
And then there's lots more details to it.
I think it's a lie.
For me it's that's the overview I have all of it.
But here you can find a bit more detail as you are at four seven provides the storage capacity.
And so it hosts use storage on 13 terabytes and market caps is half a billion dollar project.
And so how do you know if this idea is good and how do you find out more detail.
While these projects what they usually have what they should have is called the white paper and you
can find the white paper link here.
So if you click white paper you will be redirected to and a description of how this project will work.
And more importantly in terms of coins or tokens if they need a token for their project they should
mention how it works here.
Remember that small economy we're talking about in the example of the theme park well there.
Mary explain how she those talking so same thing here they need to explain why only they need blocks
in widening blushing How are they going to be that great.
And then they need to explain also why do they need a token why.
What is the purpose of that token of coin that they're going to have inside the plant or was it going
to be doing so here.
If you search for the words token or coins or have a look.
So I searched for a token token doesn't come up OK.
So the social coin you can see that it does come up.
And then here says C-A will initially be implemented as an old coin a letter that I should carry to
bitcoin.
Why a two way peg.
So then you can read a bit more into a holiday going to use this one or in this case is probably going
to be for paying for the storage.
Right.
So people buy these coins and then they can pay each other for storage in these coins than they need.
And that's how they're going to be using.
The question here is economics are the primary currency of C as a C or coin.
The supply of sequential is permanently and fresh supply.
So it has to be very thought through.
So here you can see that they've put in a lot of thinking into this into this project and how it will
work.
So that's one example.
Let's have a look at another one.
Now the example is quite famous called Power Ledger.
So it was going to hold page.
So power léger is a application of block chain which allows people to say sell their excess power to
each other.
So once you make electricity or life you gather solar energy you can then sell it to your neighbors.
So if you're part of this network and generally the idea is that this approach will be cheaper than
buying it from the grid.
And I might be mistaken but as far as I remember it was there was an Australian start up see her there.
So it's an Australian start up that because we have a lot of sun here and so people install solar panels
on their roofs and they get electricity and sometimes enough to power your own home.
But all the time is actually too much right.
You need to you need to sell to the grid or something do something with it.
And the idea they had is the one we use block chain to actually create this network like many economy
again the concept is like a mini economy where people can sell this electricity to each other and that
way they don't have to waste it they don't have to sell it back to the grid and also the sellers get
a good price and the buyers get a good price because there's no middleman There's no you're not selling
it back to the big company that operates the grid in the country that supplies electricity normally.
And so there you go.
That's that's a great idea.
And again so what we're doing we take out the middleman with taking out the supply of electricity.
The big corporation and therefore we're decentralizing something.
No whenever we decentralizing something blocking might be a good idea.
So they've come up with a way to do that.
And so you can read more about it in their white paper so if you find the white paper here I think you
go to papers and then you are white paper English takes a while to load several of that here.
And so here you can see it's a very well thought through Project version of the white paper and so on.
And then again so here you can just understand how it works.
You know the the reason the reasons for it is on to like to find out how this whole this whole set up.
But also you can find here they actually have an explanation.
Internet technical power token jewel token ecosystem and so on.
So if you go to page 20 to go to page 22 where is that.
OK.
So somewhere here they start talking about the power token will serve as a few of the power of their
journey because this partner can will help facilitate low cost and so on.
And if it was sparks as I think is is quarks there the Polish platform is across this transpired and
inter operator operable energy trading platform that supports an ever expanding suite of energy applications
with an exchangeable frictionless energy trading tokens parks and so then they explain why the need
sparks and so on and how is going to work.
Why exactly do they need it tokens so in this case it makes sense for them to show token because it's
going to be a means of exchange about.
So there's another project quite quite a famous one.
And finally here's a problem you don't want to get on.
Finally as we get a few more but like an interesting one I want to show you is called provenance and
this is a project that uses the block chain in order to track products where they come from.
So the best way to show it is if you go to case studies you'll see that live examples like you know
they you can use provenance to see where the fish came from that you are about to eat or the meat or
you know like other foods you know as it is is that through Ferriz through labor or is it not through
fair labor and so on.
You know where it is where is this wall coming from or is where was it created or was it created in
a shop this shirred was it created in a sweatshop or was it created in a proper place with good conditions
for the workers and so on.
Where does your coffee come from.
Does it come from a come from Ethiopia or does it come from you know your neighbor's backyard.
So it helps trace products throughout their journey through the world.
Very very interesting project and indeed again because it's something that's de-centralized something
that you want to take out the middleman you don't want just one company or several organizations tracking
this you want this to be available to everybody you want this life here it's not just more not as much
about decentralizing like as taking out the middleman it's more about decentralizing as in making it
available to everybody.
So transparency is one of the advantage of watching and transparency so one increased transparency so
they're using blotching.
They've been thinking about this project is that when I read their white paper where is this why.
I think it goes to technology here.
If you if I if you look at the White Paper here and read a white paper it was pretty clear.
If you read the white paper I couldn't find any mention of one or token.
And so that's very interesting so that even though they're using block chain they aren't actually doing
an ICR IPO because maybe they just don't need to use Hoynes or tokens in there they don't need some
money to fund this is just a project that nobody to actually pay each other for things.
It's just like a way that to organize this situation and like I might be wrong they might have been
talking or coin.
But the point is that sometimes projects even though they use blocks and they might not need to have
it.
I see no they don't need that internal economy to to create.
So to somehow exchange value between participants and there are examples like that as well.
So that's also to keep something to keep in mind not all blocking projects have to have NYCO and finally
just some fun stuff too.
And Kodak if you've heard of coater come the photographer the company that went bankrupt a couple of
years ago is still around is still going through the bankruptcy proceedings as far as I understand.
And they announced their own cryptocurrency token or ICAO.
And yeah so that's one of those examples when that's there's just like on the hype tried and tried to
hype way of as you can see the market price went right up as soon as that happened like 120 percent
up.
But if you look at it now it's like going back down.
And if you do some additional reading and research you'll see that a lot like those action investigations
by a company and they found that it's a worthless idea.
And you know it still hasn't gone ahead.
They're really driving along with this ICL and so on.
And it just shows examples of even a large previously large behemoth company they still have.
She likes the 7000 or 6000 CLI's even to those that were previously huge company like now is trying
to do it.
So just to ride the hype wave so be careful of that.
And if you're just going to throw money away I found this really interesting when it's a close still.
But this person actually just funny is called the useless mysterium token the world's first 100 percent
honest theory.
Mostly.
It's kind of like a parody on CEOs as so many people doing I suppose of you know claiming that they
have a cool project behind it just to raise money and then this probably isn't going to go anywhere.
While this IPO is actually there they're saying upfront that they're not going to do anything of that
we're just going to spend that they're going to waste it on themselves.
Let's go to Sarah started though I suppose they get hyped up for weeks and then they launch and clog
up with your network for days and Sorenson's on so here they explain some random person on the Internet
and you're going to give some money and some random person on the Internet money and they're going to
take it and buy stuff with it.
And so this project actually raise a lot of money.
Hundred fifty eight thousand dollars.
You can read a bit more about it on Reddit and stuff like that like.
Yeah.
So even people will invest even into things like that just for fun.
So yeah be careful out there is lots of stuff like this and again this is not about investments it's
more about projects.
You know these interesting projects out that I can give you ideas probably won't get any ideas from
this but you can get some interesting ideas from how provenance uses blotching how Paul Leger's is approaching
Hollis's as abortion and there are projects that you can explore and just focus on reading white papers
because that's where all the technical details are contained or should contain.
On that note I hope you enjoy today sectorial and I look forward See you next time.
Until then deriv. auctions.